# Cover-crop-multiservices
Data and R code for "Optimizing cover crop practices as a sustainable solution towards synergistic promotion of multiple agroecosystem services worldwide"

Tianyi Qiu, Yu Shi, Josep Peñuelas, Ji Liu, Qingliang Cui, Jordi Sardans, Feng Zhou, Longlong Xia, Weiming Yan, Shuling Zhao, Shushi Peng, Jinshi Jian, Qinsi He, Wenju Zhang, Min Huang, Wenfeng Tan, Linchuan Fang

The practice of cover crops (CCs) in agriculture has gained significant popularity as a strategy to improve agricultural sustainability. Yet, its full potential is often constrained by environmental trade-offs stemming from improper use and management. By applying meta-analytic approaches and data-driven quantifications based on 2302 field observations, we aim to optimize the portfolio of CC rotation systems and quantify its benefits for global agroecosystems. Historically, CCs have been shown to increase crop yields, soil carbon storage, and stability, while also stimulating greenhouse gas emissions. However, CCs can be effectively combined with long-term implementation (≥ 5 years) and climate-smart management practices (e.g., no-tillage) to enhance all these services simultaneously. Among various CC types, a biculture of legume and non-legume CCs is recommended, with an optimal termination of approximately 25 days before planting the next crop, followed by CC residue mulching. Such optimized CC practices are projected to globally enhance agroecosystem multiservices by 1.25% under the current scenario (2020). This is equivalent to an annual increase of 97.7 Tg in crop production, 21.7 Pg in CO2 sequestration, and a reduction of 2.41 Pg yr−1 in soil erosion after five years. Looking ahead to 2100, the continued implementation of long-term CC practices is expected to provide consistent resistance to climate-related yield losses and contribute to climate neutrality and soil stabilization, especially in harsh and underdeveloped areas. These findings underscore the promising potential of optimizing CC practices to achieve sustainable development goals, given the synergy in promoting both food security and environmental protection.

All analyses were performed using R statistical software version 4.1.2.
